**Draft Minutes for the One Hundred and Forty-First Meeting of the
College Council Formed on November 14, 2002\
\
Date: Thursday, September 30, 2021, 2:30pm -- 3:30pm\
Location: Zoom Meeting**

**Attendance:** Jonathan Peters,** **Chang-Hui Shen, Angelo Bongiorno,
Yumei Huo, Rachel Grant, Simone Wegge, Gene Fellner, Lee Papa, John
Wing, Soon Chun, Carles Solà Belda, Carlo Lancelloti, Natalie Fischetti,
Zaghoul Ahmed, Jane Marcus Delgado, Christine Flynn Saulnier, Jay Arena,
Lucas Marchante-Aragón, Alyson Bardsely, Alan Benimoff, Jason Bishop,
Vandana Chaudhry, Katie Cumiskey, Deborah De Simone, Maryann Feola,
Susan Imberman, Catherine Lavender, John Lawrence, Alfred Levine,
Michael Paris, George Sanchez, Francisco Soto, Thomas Tellefsen, John
Verzani, Cindy Wong, Roshen Hendrickson, Andrew Colbeck, Brian Farr,
Sarah Zelikovitz,, Wilma Jones, Cynthia Chris, Sylvia Kahan, Mark White,
Comfort Asanbe, William Fritz, Michael Parrish, Michael Cavagnero,
Sarolta Takács,. Susan Holak, Warrick Bell, Mary Murphy, Jiayn Chen,
Michael Ivany, Jennifer Borrero, Carlos Serrano, Patricia Kahn, Hope
Berte, Rob Wallace, Juline Robinson, Hernan Green, Suzy Shepardson,
Rosane Gertner, Valerie Forrestal, George Vachadze, George Wang, Mark
Feuer.

 

** **

**Guests**:** ** Andrew Leykam, Alexander Scott, Amy Stempler, Anat
Niv-Solomon, Brian Farr, Christina Boyle, Christina Toti, Darryl
Hill, David Pizzuto, Donna Sauthoff, Donna Scimeca, Erma Tacopino,
Gregory Brown,  Holly Block, Intissar Hasan, Isabel Rechberg, Ivan Scott
Lee, Janine Scotto, James Hamilton, Jennifer Durando, Jessica Collura,
Jessica Stein, Jonelle Knox, Joyce Taylor,  Katrina Fama,  Koby
Kohulan, Leonardo Pignataro​, Linda Conte, Lynne Lacomis, Manuela
Alongi, Mark Lewental,  Matthew Ganz, Maureen Garvey, Maurya Wickstrom,
Michael Chiacchiero, Michael Lederhandler​, Orit D. Gruber, Qiao-Sheng
Hu, Ralf Peetz,  Shannon Cammarano, Stephen Ferst, Susan Massara, Susan
Mee Crimmins, Tara Mastrorilli, Veronica Dimeglio, Patti Gross, Cesar
Arenas-Mena, Patricia Galleta, Alana Gaymon, Carol Brower, Tony Gallego,
Mary Boland, Giancarlo Lombardi, Jasmine Cardona, Jennifer Lynch, Aya
Ashour, Florinda Mattia, Danielle Dimitrov, Cesare Barreca, George
Davis, Michael Batson, Kim Williams, Eli Hollander, Brenda Valentin,
Heidi Bertels, Ken Gold, Francis Yee, Dante Tawfeeq, Thomas Volscho

[I. Approval of the proposed agenda - *approved*\
\
II. Approval of the minutes of the previous meeting -- *approved *]{.ul}

[III. Executive Committee of College Council Report - J. Verzani]{.ul}

On 9/16 the College Council Executive Committee met with the President
and Provost

Topics under discussion were:

-   The budget picture

The budget committee of the College Council had been informed of a draft
financial plan for the next three years, as expected by central CUNY. At
the time we heard that though federal funds would cover the college
through the next 2 years, the 3rd year had a 5M projected deficit.

It was discussed at the meeting that some model assumptions about state
support and enrollment were difficult to predict at this time.

The need to hire more faculty and staff was expressed.

-   Campus reopening and facilities issues

We discussed campus re-opening and related issues. The aftermath of IDA
left at least two buildings offline for awhile, likely the duration of
the semester. This due to an accumulation of water in the basements that
was unable to be immediately addressed. An earlier storm had toppled
numerous trees. We heard that the campus did not expect to have any
out-of-pocket expenses for any repairs.

We asked about campus leeway given CUNY recommendations.

-   The proposed governance plan.

The College Council re-iterated its recommendation that this proposed
referendum be dropped. It restated that the results of the referendum
should be respected. There was a direct question as to whether that
would be done. The response was not unequivocal, as it should be.

It was stated by the College Council Chair that the results will be
overwhelmingly a \"NO\" and that the results will be embarrassing.

[**[Special Session of the College
Council]{.ul}**](https://csicollegegovernance.github.io/CCFS/Sep2021Meeting/cc-chair/#special_session_of_the_college_council)

On 9/21, at the request of more than 20% of the College Council members,
a special session of the College Council was held on the matter of the
referendum on the proposed governance plan

-   There were 281 different people who attended this special session.

-   The Chair of the College Council spoke out in opposition

-   The Chair of the Faculty Senate spoke out in opposition

-   The Chair of the Professional Staff Congress (PSC) spoke out in
    opposition

-   The Co-chairs of the HEO steering committee spoke out in opposition

-   The Student Government President spoke out in opposition; the
    outgoing Student Government Presidnet made a statement in opposition

-   The adjunct representative to the Faculty Senate spoke out in
    opposition

-   Numerous members of the college community spoke out in opposition

-   An independent reading of the plan by a professor of Higher
    Education at the University of Mississippi and a member of the AAUP
    Litigation Committee characterized the plan as a **takeover**

-   There were **0** people speaking in favor; there
    are **9** administrative positions reserved for the College Council

A straw poll was taken at the end of the meeting. The results were

-   **1** in favor; **4** abstain; **102** in **OPPOSITION**

[IV. Election of at large seat of the College Council Executive
Committee]{.ul}

Mary Murphy elected unanimously

[V. President's Report -- W. Fritz]{.ul}

College Council September 30, 2021

Welcome back! I hope everyone Is having a good start to the Fall
semester. I have been walking around campus, and enjoy seeing many of
you and our students back in the classrooms in offices, and out enjoying
the beautiful grounds. It feels good to be getting back to normal,
albeit with masks, social distancing and other safety measures in place.

While we are still navigating a pandemic, we must not waiver in our
commitment to delivering a vibrant campus life experience, a welcoming
home for our residents, an excellent education for all of our students,
and importantly, on fostering the equity mindedness of our institution
and its policies.

Thus, the most important thing to do right now is to get vaccinated and
follow all the safety measures put in place in order to keep everyone
safe.

I want to thank all of our essential personnel who continued to work on
campus throughout the pandemic. Your hard work and dedication is
appreciated by all. I personally deeply appreciate the faculty who have
gone the extra mile to meet the needs of our students in this pandemic.

As all of you know, to get onto campus now, everyone (with few
exceptions, such as children under 12) must either show proof of
vaccination or a negative test within the last seven days. At this time,
faculty, staff and students, including all of our affiliates, should all
be registered with Cleared4, as the Everbridge app will no longer be
available after tomorrow.

As of October 7th, students will be expected to be fully vaccinated with
a few exceptions for religious and medical reasons. Please make sure
that you read and understand CUNY's policy so that the correct
information is given to our students if asked. Student Affairs and
Academic Affairs have sent out numerous communications to Faculty and
Students on the matter, and we must all work together to ensure that the
students

are not misled and understand CUNY's vaccination policy. As of October
7th, Students, except in very limited circumstances, must be vaccinated
to access campus. This is an important step as we move toward a more in
person Spring semester.

The COVID pandemic and our mostly remote accommodations for 18 months
did not stop our positive trajectory and it\'s been rewarded with
several citations that have come to us in recent weeks. U.S. News and
World report identified us as a badge- earner for Diversity and a Best
College of Undergraduate Nursing. The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher
Education report of Top Colleges identified us as a top school for both
Student and Staff Diversity.

Forbes magazine cited CSI as a top college for lowest debt score of
graduates, ranking us 6th in the state and 51st nationally in that
category, while also ranking 12th in our state in median 10- year salary
of our graduating students. I applaud our faculty, 10 of whom have
earned the distinction as the top 2% of the world\'s scientists in
Stanford University\'s annual study. All of this sits

parallel to the scores of individual awards and grants our faculty
continue to earn, keeping with our long standing of academic excellence.

The campus suffered a double blow this fall from the weather. First, on
August 27th a microburst hit campus leaving behind approximately 14
downed trees. Second, and shortly after the microburst, we experienced
significant flooding as a result of Hurricane IDA. Buildings 1N and 2N
and the Springer Concert Hall are still closed at this time while we
address the damage. Unfortunately, we also lost many of our facilities
supplies, materials and equipment due to flooding in the basement of our
main storage area in building 2M. CUNY, DASNY and AIG Insurance Company
are working on campus to ensure that all damages are remediated and
losses are tracked and reimbursed.

With respect to the Budget, we recently submitted a multi-year balanced
Financial Plan to CUNY. While we are projecting to end FY 21 in the
black, and the next three years through FY24 in the black, with a
positive CUTRA each year. Despite this, it is imperative to understand
that the budget is masked by stimulus funds which expire by FY23. In
fact, when you view the financial plan without the reliance on stimulus
funding, we would have deficits in every year of the plan and a
remaining structural deficit in FY 24. This translates to the need to
restructure our spending base to align with available resources. In
order to right size the budget, we must continue to increase enrollment
reduce payroll through attrition. We must only make crucial hires, and
realize savings by making data driven decisions on where to invest in
support of our strategic vision. Most important, we must focus on
providing our students with the best education we possibly can in an
environment in which they can thrive.

I want to briefly address the governance plan proposal. The ballots went
out on Monday and will close on Friday. The plan has gone through
several different revisions over the past seven months, as a result of
open communication, consultation and feedback received from the campus
community. I continued to receive feedback and modified the document
accordingly up to the last minute. I want to thank everyone for their
contributions throughout the process.

Before casting your vote, please read the plan, and do it with an open
mind. We are all educated people, who can make educated decisions that
we think are best. We do not need someone else to tell us how to vote or
what is best for them. Make your own determinations, and do what you
think is best for the College in the long run. I proposed this new plan
because it is important to me that the College have a more inclusive and
nimble governance plan that empowers people, gives voices to the
unheard, improves the climate and clearly defines the roles and
responsibilities of our constituents. But it is up to you whether or not
you vote for or against the plan. Everyone in the instructional staff
has a vote -- but it should be your vote and not the vote of someone
else.

I want to close by saying thank you to all those who reached out to me,
sharing their memories and stories about Debbie Mahoney. I am truly
touched. Debbie was a wonderful person, and great friend and colleague
to many. We will all miss her. We have lost many good people over the
years at the College of Staten Island, and we must never forget them and
should celebrate their lives the best we can. It is a painful reminder
that life is short and unpredictable and we must do our best to make the
most of it while we are here. My deepest sympathies for all those who
have suffered a loss, especially during these difficult times. I hope
that the worst of the pandemic is behind us and that there are brighter
days ahead for all.

Thank you.

William J. Fritz President

[VI. PSC Report: G Sanchez]{.ul}

-   Condolence to Debbie Mahoney and her family

-   The entire union will be supporting its member on the vote on the
    referendum regarding the Governance

-   The late contractual raise will be paid in October

-   The union is discussing the contractual obligation regarding travel
    expense

-   Members need to pay attention to retiree healthcare where there have
    been discussions of moving the existing retiree plan to a privatized
    Medicare advantage plan

[VII. Reports from the Administration -- No report\
\
VIII. Reports of the Committees of the College Council\
]{.ul}\
a. Committee on Organization -- no report\
b. By-Law Committee -- no report\
c. Administrative Review Committee -- no report\
d. Institutional Planning Committee -- no report\
e. Budget Committee -- J Verzani

Membership change: Wilma Jones will replace Gerry Milligan, other
members include, Katie Cuminkey, George Sanchez, Veronica DiMeglio and
John Verzani

### [September 2, 3rd](https://csicollegegovernance.github.io/CCFS/Sep2021Meeting/cc-budget/#september_2_3rd)

The Budget Committee met with AVP Serrano and Provost Parrish in early
September. The meeting scheduled on the 2nd was graciously rescheduled
for the 3rd. At this meeting we discussed the financial plan.

CUNY Central asks for financial plans each year, and requires
consultation with elected governance and student leaders. This year the
plan was to cover 3 years of spending including the federal stimulus
funds.

The plan at the time was not rosy

-   federal funds would allow a balanced plan for the next 2 years
    (FY22, FY23)

-   a projected 5M deficit was showing in the out year (FY24; after
    federal funds are spent)

We discussed the model used for this which included no additional
support from the state; and flat enrollment from F21.

### [September 28](https://csicollegegovernance.github.io/CCFS/Sep2021Meeting/cc-budget/#september_28)

The Budget Committee met with AVP Serrano and Provost Parrish on
September 28 to further discuss the financial plan.

Since the meeting of the 3rd, the model had been adjusted:

-   aggressive claims on federal funds moved monies into FY21 which
    carry over

-   a modest 0.5% increase in tuition dollars was projected (essentially
    a 0.5% increase in enrollment from F21 numbers)

-   significant savings in PS and OTPS driven primarily by an
    expectation that the rate of separation by FT personnel (\~24/year)
    would continue over the life of the plan. This would mean that by
    FY24 there would be \~72 fewer FT personnel.

With these new assumptions the model shows a 2+M surplus. It was
remarked that without federal funds this would be a much pronounced
deficit.

CUNY expects a balanced financial plan. As of Friday 9/17, several
campuses had not had their financial plans approved.

In addition to discussing the model assumptions, such as the large
modeled reduction in personnel, there was an interesting discussion on
how to measure the cost of programs and the returns of programs so that
the College can invest in programs which will improve the financial
outlook. The provost mused that the new curriculum process might help.

Katie Cumiskey (stated to be included in the minutes): (edited and
abridged, please go to the video recording for the complete record) The
provost alluded to changes in the governance maybe around which I saw as
alluding to changes in the curriculum committee where decision could be
made about changing programs. I wanted to make sure that changes be
examined at a higher level, asking Carlos and the provost for help to
achieve this by involving all parties that would be affected by the
proposed changes to assure a collaborative process.

Carlos Serrano (response to above): (edited and abridged, please go to
the video recording for the complete record) The financial plan contains
conservative and realistic assumptions based on historical performance.
Enrollment drop is a systemic and national problem. If we remove the
stimulus funds, we still have a structural problem. We have an
opportunity to right size. To just talk about adding cost and putting in
assumptions to hope the state is going to turn around when we have lost
in excess of \$8 millions of state cuts since I have been on this
campus.

f\. Facilities Committee -- no report\
\
\
[IX. Higher Education Officer Steering Committee Report -- S.
Shepardson]{.ul}

Report will be sent via email

[X. Student Government Report: Michael Ivany]{.ul}

\- Student Government has a newly elected slant

\- However, only 18 of the 25 senator seats are filled

\- There has not been much school spirit; the student government would
like to work to bring more school pride and school spirit and excitement
back to campus\
\
[X. Auxiliary Services Corporation Report: R. Wallace]{.ul}

\- A food service mobile app has been introduced and there is also food
deliveries to the dorms and some buildings and also changes In the
menu.\
\
[XI. Old Business \-- none\
\
XII. New Business \-- none\
\
XII. Adjournment]{.ul} -- 3.38PM

Video link:
<https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/play/mnV33UVStJaofI6_fTVRd7k970nI670KvMky7t5Y68chip6xXCCkIPGthW4DlLeY4eiTFOSheP9PDmNt.fIDKl1XSA7Cl3eOa?continueMode=true&_x_zm_rtaid=WlGfYrmOSlOQ6EDPZk18vQ.1634699172539.550846f01d5398b890d169ffc14776aa&_x_zm_rhtaid=784>
