<!doctype html> <html lang=en > <meta charset=UTF-8 > <meta name=viewport  content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"> <link rel=stylesheet  href="/css/franklin.css"> <link rel=stylesheet  href="/css/basic.css"> <link rel=icon  href="/assets/favicon.png"> <title></title> <header> <div class=blog-name ><a href="/">CSI College Governance</a></div> <nav> <ul> <li><a href="/">Home</a> <li><a href="/CCFS/">Meetings</a> <li><a href="/GovernanceCrisis/">Governance Crisis</a> </ul> <img src="/assets/hamburger.svg" id=menu-icon > </nav> </header> <div class=franklin-content ><p>Notes from April 6, 2022 Bylaws Committee Meeting</p> <p><strong>Not yet reviewed by the bylaws committee</strong></p> <ul> <li><p>Reviewed notes</p> <li><p>Reviewed change to draft document which centered on what happens when a department does not elect a representative.</p> <li><p>WB asked if it would change the size of the body. The belief is no.</p> <li><p>CL suggested inserting the word &quot;seated&quot;. This was agreed to.</p> </ul> <p>–&gt; JV to insert &quot;seated&quot; into draft document.</p> <ul> <li><p>Review changes suggested by the HEO Steering Committee</p> </ul> <p>It was decided to address the suggested changes to various committees before consideration of the term limits proposals.</p> <ul> <li><p>Budget Committee</p> </ul> <p>After discussion JV to query budget committee about this change, including several discussed scenarios:</p> <ul> <li><p>1 of 6 seats assigned to a HEO</p> <li><p>1 of 5 seats assigned to a HEO</p> <li><p>1 HEO seat; 4 faculty seats.</p> <li><p>College Council Facilities Committee</p> <li><p>We agreed that the</p> </ul> <p>&quot;Vice President of Finance and Administration.&quot; should be modified to &quot;Vice President&quot; in charge of Facilities.</p> <ul> <li><p>we agreed that this change would obviate this suggestion: &quot;Vice President for Campus Planning, Facilities and Operations or Assistant Vice President for Facilities Management and Operational Services.&quot;</p> <li><p>we decided to query the committee on the inclusion of 2 HEOs and 2 Students.</p> </ul> <p>As this committee currently has no chair, we will address John Wing, VP of Faculty Senate, with this request.</p> <ul> <li><p>Academic Technology Committee</p> </ul> <p>The suggested broadening of the charge to cover the gap of a college governance committee to discuss non-academic computing would bump into the ITAC committee. It was recalled that the ITAC committee was formed after the creation of the &#40;then ad hoc&#41; Technology Committee. The issue of parallel or shadow committees to governance committees was raised.</p> <p>It was suggested that a CLT representative should be included in this committe regardless if the charge is widened.</p> <ul> <li><p>we decided to send this to the committee for comment</p> </ul> <ul> <li><p>General Education Committee</p> </ul> <p>The suggested change included the inclusion on the committee of representatives of various college offices who currently attend as guests. The issue of some guests being informed by supervisors that they should not speak up was raised. The particular issue of the Office of Assessment was discussed. Here the office currently is just an associate provost. It was discussed whether the suggestion for the HEO steering committee – which is promoting HEO participation – would also be in alignment with wording such as &quot;the Associate Provost overseeing Assessment or designee...&quot;. This was mentioned to not be in alignment. We discussed the inclusion of the &quot;curriculum coordinator&quot;.</p> <ul> <li><p>Provost Parrish to canvas Ralf and others about these additional defined duties for office staff</p> <li><p>JV to forward to chair of General Education</p> <li><p>Undergraduate Curriculum Committee</p> </ul> <p>This discussion was similar to the GEC one.</p> <p>JV to forward to chair of UCC along with suggestion of adding the Curriculum Coordinator</p> <ul> <li><p>Graduate Studies</p> </ul> <p>This was similar to the UCC.</p> <ul> <li><p>It was decided that the committee would try to meet between 5/10 and 5/17</p> </ul> <div class=page-foot > <div class=copyright > &copy; Septimia Zenobia. Last modified: May 17, 2022. Website built with <a href="https://github.com/tlienart/Franklin.jl">Franklin.jl</a> and the <a href="https://julialang.org">Julia programming language</a>. </div> </div> </div>