# Notes from ByLaws meeting of March 16, 2022

* Reviewed of current draft

Prior changes were accepted, subject to future modifications

* Discussion of proposal from the Committee on Organization

It was decided that the proposal wording improved on the current wording in the draft.

> JV to incorporate into the 3 places, as needed and circulate new draft.

* Discussion of email from Alyson Bardsley/ Orit Gruber regarding the Academic Technology Committee

To be discussed with the proposal from the HEO steering committee (as it includes this and more)

* Discussion of email from Professor Gerry Milligan of Oct 7th

> JV to follow up with Professor's Milligan and Monte asking for specific proposals for consideration.

* Discussion of email from Professor Neo Antonaides of Oct 11th

> JV to follow up with Professor Antonaides asking for specific proposals for consideration.

* discussion of email from the HEO Steering Committee

This was reviewed, but any discussion was postponed to our next meeting.

A subsequent meeting will be held prior to spring break, if possible.
