<!doctype html> <html lang=en > <meta charset=UTF-8 > <meta name=viewport  content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"> <link rel=stylesheet  href="/css/franklin.css"> <link rel=stylesheet  href="/css/basic.css"> <link rel=icon  href="/assets/favicon.png"> <title>Notes from the By Laws Committee meeting of March 16, 2022</title> <header> <div class=blog-name ><a href="/">CSI College Governance</a></div> <nav> <ul> <li><a href="/">Home</a> <li><a href="/CCFS/">Meetings</a> <li><a href="/GovernanceCrisis/">Governance Crisis</a> </ul> <img src="/assets/hamburger.svg" id=menu-icon > </nav> </header> <div class=franklin-content ><h1 id=notes_from_the_by_laws_committee_meeting_of_march_16_2022 ><a href="#notes_from_the_by_laws_committee_meeting_of_march_16_2022" class=header-anchor >Notes from the By Laws Committee meeting of March 16, 2022</a></h1> <ul> <li><p>Reviewed current draft changes &#40;from 11/2019&#41;</p> </ul> <p>Prior changes were accepted, subject to future modifications</p> <ul> <li><p>Discussion of proposal from the Committee on Organization</p> </ul> <p>It was decided that the proposal wording improved on the current wording in the draft.</p> <blockquote> <p>JV to incorporate into the 3 places, as needed and circulate new draft.</p> </blockquote> <ul> <li><p>Discussion of email from Alyson Bardsley/ Orit Gruber regarding the Academic Technology Committee</p> </ul> <p>To be discussed with the proposal from the HEO steering committee &#40;as it includes this and more&#41;</p> <ul> <li><p>Discussion of email from Professor Gerry Milligan of Oct 7th</p> </ul> <blockquote> <p>JV to follow up with Professor&#39;s Milligan and Monte asking for specific proposals for consideration.</p> </blockquote> <ul> <li><p>Discussion of email from Professor Neo Antonaides of Oct 11th</p> </ul> <blockquote> <p>JV to follow up with Professor Antonaides asking for specific proposals for consideration.</p> </blockquote> <ul> <li><p>discussion of email from the HEO Steering Committee</p> </ul> <p>This was reviewed, but any discussion was postponed to our next meeting.</p> <p>A subsequent meeting will be held prior to spring break, if possible.</p> <div class=page-foot > <div class=copyright > &copy; Septimia Zenobia. Last modified: May 17, 2022. Website built with <a href="https://github.com/tlienart/Franklin.jl">Franklin.jl</a> and the <a href="https://julialang.org">Julia programming language</a>. </div> </div> </div>